Hello. this is J.K. Simmons.
Actually. this is J.K. Simmons
and that is Tobey Maguire.
Tobey Maguire.
Gonna watch Spider-Man
and talk to you guys.
Yeah. And that was
the Columbia lady shedding light.
Very cool logo.
Marvel Comics. I thought it was
part of the movie when I first saw it.
It's just the Marvel logo.
And very cool Danny Elf man...
- Score.
- ...theme here. yeah.
Yeah.
I remember sitting at the premier...
...really remember
just right off the bat just being...
...sucked right in.
Oh. yeah. It was so exciting too.
The energy and anticipation
of the film was just insane.
- Yeah.
- It was...
I was like on the edge
of my seat and...
...I couldn't wait to see
how people responded.
- "J.K. Simmons."
- Hey. I heard of him.
Yeah.
I've worked with him before actually.
- Right. there's a little trivia fact.
- Sure.
Cider House Rules.
- Played Charlize's pops. right?
- Yeah.
I can't remember his name.
- The lobster man. Ray.
- Right.
Ray. the lobster man.
I gotta say. I had a great time
on this film...
...and it comes from Sam.
Sam Raimi.
Absolutely. Yeah.
He was...
It was hard for me
to get this job actually.
The studio was hesitant
to hire me...
...as this is a huge investment
for them...
...and. you know. I guess people
are used to seeing me...
...in art-house films...
...playing more passive.
less heroic characters...
...very introspective. and...
They didn't...
They said.
"Well. we like him as an actor.
We're not sure if he's right
for this role."
And Sam Raimi really fought for me.
And it was hard.
I had to fight with him...
...but he was so supportive
and so passionate...
...about having me in the movie.
You know. I went through
two screen tests...
...for the film.
And then off to the races...
...but it was good
because I really felt...
...like a partner with Sam.
- Yeah.
- So it was a good way to go into it.
And then just having a ball with Sam
making the movie.
He's so much fun. so funny.
Yeah. yeah. he's great. He's...
I described him once as being like...
...a really. really smart 9-year-old boy.
Because he's got a lot of
that kind of fun about him.
Fun. silly energy. but very smart
and very collaborative.
Yeah.
There's Kirsten Dunst.
who I flew out to Germany...
...when I had strep throat.
We had read tons of girls
and we were like...
...four weeks before
we started shooting.
And. you know.
that's a short amount of time...
...for this kind of film.
where they have all these...
I mean. she didn't have
a superhero costume...
...but. you know.
they need preparation time.
Right.
And I didn't wanna go.
And I said to Sam...
Didn't wanna spend eight hours
on a plane with strep?
Yeah. I didn't. Well. actually
I had to go to New York.
From LA. To New York...
No. L.A. to Germany for...
...17 hours. be in Germany. Berlin...
...then go to New York
for two days...
...and come home.
And I called my doctor...
...and said. "Can you give me a note
so I can call Sam...
...or give the note that I can't go
to Sam?" And I called...
"Dear Mr. Raimi. Tobey is too sick..."
And I called Sam and I said. you know.
"My doctor doesn't think I should go."
Sam said. "Tobey...
...I've gotta tell my kids that...
...Daddy can't be with them
this weekend...
...and I really don't wanna do that.
This is about sacrifice.
And pack your bags
because you're coming to Germany."
So off we went.
and thank God. because that was it.
I mean. I'm not gonna say.
you know...
We basically all knew
right as it was happening...
- Yeah. yeah.
- ...that she was it.
She was so...
There were a lot of wonderful names
and ideas that came up for casting...
...but then. yeah. when I met Kirsten
and saw her doing it. there's just...
Nobody could have been any better.
For the role. yeah. exactly.
...Public-school kids.
I'm not showing up in the Rolls.
What. you want me
to trade in my car for a Jetta...
...because you flunked out
of every private school...
And these guys...
Willem and James Franco.
One of the great things
that you notice...
...in the very first scene is that...
...you see actors playing
father and son all the time...
...that there's no way
they could be related.
And these guys. you know...
...not only are they both
good actors...
...but they actually...
- Look like...
- They could be related.
Exactly.
Good job.
There I am. looking like a nerd.
It's perfect.
So was that a big stretch.
the nerd thing?
Well. it is a big stretch.
but people don't realize that.
Only my friends realize that.
Impressive.
Your parents must be very proud.
I live with my aunt and uncle.
They are.
It was great working with Willem.
I like...
I think I threw in the DVD
of Last Temptation of Christ...
...the night before I started
working with him.
You know. I said. "I'm going to work
with Jesus Christ tomorrow."
Right.
He had just gotten done...
The vampire...
- What was the vampire movie?
- Shadow of the Vampire.
That was just out when we...
When I started working with him.
Yup.
This is the most advanced electron
microscope...
Peter Parker.
impressed with things...
...that most teenagers
couldn't care less about.
That's what most teenagers
care about.
Yeah. exactly.
For example. the Delena spider.
family Sparassidae. has the ability...
This is very typical...
...you know. sweet. smart.
underdog character...
...and getting picked on here.
- Right. And big. mean Joe.
- Right.
Flash Thompson.
That's the other thing about this.
I had such a good time...
...because everybody in the film...
...like these guys. were great
and they were a lot of fun.
And I just say. that all comes
from Sam again. in my opinion.
Yeah. Yeah.
I was gonna say... This is
the Sam Raimi butt-kissing hour...
...but it's really true.
You know. he does
a great job of hiring...
...not only people who are gonna be
really good at their job...
...but people that. you know.
you can spend a few months with...
...and really collaborate with
and have a good time with.
The whole process before we started
shooting. for a couple months...
I mean. I trained physically
for four or five months...
...but the whole process
of getting in a room...
...with the different actors
and Sam...
And we would go through.
scene by scene...
...and break down the scenes
and what they meant...
...for our characters.
and what place they had in the film...
...and in our characters' arcs...
...was a great process because
it gets us all on the same page...
...and we're all going in to make
the same movie with the same tone.
And we all felt like...
...we were partners
in making the film.
We were filmmakers and not just
hired puppets to come in and...
- Come in and say the lines. Yeah.
- Right.
So that's always nice
because I can see my...
You know. my handprint
on the movie here and there...
...beyond just my performance.
which is a lot of fun.
Yeah. it was really a very...
Especially considering the big-budget.
blockbuster nature of it...
...it was a very collaborative.
supportive. fun kind of project.
...Genetically designed super-spiders.
There's 14.
I beg your pardon?
- One's missing.
- Yeah.
I guess the researchers
are working on that one.
There's James snaking my girl.
You were talking throughout
that woman's entire presentation.
Let's go talk about how we listen.
- Come on. go for it.
- Yeah.
Getting the nerve.
I think that's a moment
that we can all identify with...
- ...from adolescent days or beyond.
- Absolutely.
Well. I do wanna say that
this is acting for me at this point.
- Sure.
- Great.
Where do you want me? Over here?
Yeah. that's great.
Don't make me look ugly.
She's great. She's just so natural.
So believable and solid.
but fun and funny.
Something I love is.
she doesn't work with vanity...
...and she's not...
She doesn't really care. you know.
She's not. like. cautious or vain...
...or looking at herself. self-conscious.
She just goes for it and...
...is there
to have a good time and...
Oh. here's the one.
Here's the little guy
that sets the whole mess in motion.
What is in this thing?
What is in that little guy?
By the way. that wasn't my hand.
That was not my thumbnail.
And I know I'm blowing
the magic of movies there...
...but that was not my thumbnail.
So a hand model got a day at work?
I don't know who that was.
- That was probably Sam. Yeah.
- Sam Raimi.
Now see that thumbnail?
- Oh. that's not...?
- That's mine.
How strange.
"New species."
OSCORP. the empire of evil.
We solved the horizon glide
and the multi-G balance issues.
I feel bad things for this guy.
Something's gonna happen.
Mr. Balkan. Mr. Fargas.
- Norman.
- Mr. Osborn.
Always a pleasure to have
our board of directors visit.
I want to see the progress report
on human performance enhancers.
We tried vapor inhalation with rats.
Their strength increased by 800%.
- Excellent.
- Any side effects?
In one trial. yes.
An aberration. All the tests since
have been successful.
In Mr. Osborn's defense. you know...
...this guy could be
a little more understanding...
...a little more compassionate.
They're working on
some pretty serious stuff.
The military is known
for their compassion...
- ...and understanding.
- Absolutely.
Very empathetic.
Let's talk it out.
We need to take the whole line
back to formula.
- Back to formula?
- Dr. Osborn.
I'll be frank with you.
I never supported your program. We
have my predecessor to thank for that.
The general has approved
Quest Aerospace...
...to build a prototype
of their exoskeleton design.
- They test in two weeks.
- And if your performance enhancers...
...have not had a successful
human trial by that date...
...I'm gonna pull your funding.
One of the conversations
I had with Sam early on...
...before I even knew
if I wanted to do the film...
...was. you know.
what's the tone of this film gonna be?
Is it gonna...?
Are we gonna try to make it
as believable as possible...
...and have the fantasy
come out of characters...
...that are grounded
and based in a reality...
...or is it just gonna be...
...you know.
a big. fun comic-book movie?
I said.
"Because I'd be interested in it...
...if it was coming out
of real characters and truth."
And that's where
he was coming from.
And he was describing
the tone of it to me and...
Well. Sam was a big Spider-Man fan
as a kid too.
I don't know if you were.
I was not. but Sam apparently was
a gigantic Spider-Man fan...
...with the thing hanging above...
...like a poster or a painting
hanging above his bed...
...and he read.
But I went back and read about
the first four years of issues...
- ...which is the period that Sam read.
- Yeah.
You know. the early stuff.
Basically. that's sort of
what the film covers too.
- Yeah.
- The creation of Spider-Man...
- ...and the beginning of...
- The origin story.
I hear there might be a sequel.
- Really?
- Yes.
When are they
talking about making that?
Some time in the spring. I think.
I hear. like. late March
they're gonna go into production.
I guess we're hearing
the same vague rumors then. yeah.
I think every other May. there'll be
a new Spider-Man movie for...
That's the idea.
For the next couple decades
or so.
I'm gonna have to. you know...
They'll have to recast me
as Uncle Ben one of these days.
Now. I do wanna say.
this effect. which was brilliant...
I do wanna clarify
that this is not my body...
...the skinny dude.
They had me walk...
Or they had the kid walk
and then I had to match his walk.
...This recombination lab.
we use synthesized...
And they somehow
put my head on his body.
It was pretty clever.
...combining the genetic
information from all three spiders...
My nose looks pretty...
- Nostrils are pretty clear.
- Always a nice shot.
- Yeah.
- Is that your skull there in that shot?
That's not my actual skull.
Something's happening.
Seems like more than a dream.
Yeah. all those effects
were just genius.
I guess they spent
a little time on that...
- ...after we got done with our jobs.
- Oh. yeah.
Now. I'm asking you for the last time.
We can't do this.
A lot of the questions that I find
that I get from people in the street...
...always have to do with the...
Not always. sometimes have to do
with the technical aspects of it.
And often people are asking me.
like I have a clue:
"How did they do that thing
with the...?" You know.
- I'm not sure. Right.
- I just. you know...
...say my lines and try not to waste
anybody's time too much.
It begins catalyzation when the vapor
hits the bloodstream.
It's amazing how long it takes
to do all that stuff too.
40.000 years of evolution...
...and we've barely tapped
the vastness of human potential.
This is a pretty interesting idea
for a villain actually...
...you know.
human performance enhancers.
Yeah. It certainly resonates...
...in a lot of different aspects
of real life.
Oh. that's cold.
A guy facing losing his company
and everything he's built...
...and all his work
that he cares personally about...
These are some of the things that I.
you know...
That I thought would be tricky...
...things to handle
that were handled pretty well.
Because that's where you can
really lose me in a film like this.
Being like a big action-y.
superhero film. you know.
Right. what are the themes
that it's...?
- What's it about besides...?
- Right.
It's not just like.
"Oh. a superhero. supervillain"...
...but there's personal stuff
going on for these characters.
That's one of the things you always
look for. or at least I do. that...
Especially playing a bad guy.
You know. is he just. you know...
...a two-dimensional.
quote. unquote. bad guy or is he...
...a human being that could be...?
Who's coming from somewhere?
Yeah. nothing interesting
about the other...
And Willem. obviously.
I mean. you know...
He does...
You wonder if. does he
make parts really fascinating...
...or. you know. is he...
- Or is it written like that? Right.
- ...drawn to only the really...
...quirky. interesting parts?
- Probably a little bit of both. you know.
- Yeah.
It's always...
...hard for me
to go beyond the material.
I've just been fortunate.
I think and...
Selective and fortunate
to work on good things.
Yeah. that's really it.
It's both of those.
Yeah. and this was what
I love so much. It's like...
...a bunch of art-house people...
- ...making a big movie. you know?
- Yeah. yeah. yeah.
A little late for school.
I'm 27 now but...
This was a great touch.
with the glasses.
- This is great.
- I don't remember...
...if that's directly from the script.
or if that was...
I don't recall. Yeah.
But there were a lot of those
really nice little touches.
And the "Oh. by the way.
what the hell is my head on top of?"
- Tobey's been doing his sit-ups.
- Yeah.
That was five months of six days
a week. four hours a day...
- ...nutritionists. trainers...
- Right. for about eight seconds of...
- Right.
- Plus all the stunts and stuff...
...and looking good in the suit but...
This is the thing that I think...
...helps you buy it
for the rest of the movie.
Yeah. yeah.
I also did yoga for flexibility...
...and martial arts and gymnastics.
What martial arts?
- Tae Kwon do or...?
- No.
This guy. Steven Ho.
who was my martial arts trainer...
- That was fun. that little stunt there.
- Yeah.
Yeah. now that was...
There was no effect.
- No effect.
- You did the deal?
They had a little lip for me to...
The top hand.
I had a little lip to grab onto...
...and. yeah. just did it.
- It was simple but fun.
- Yeah. No. that was great.
And there were obviously a lot of
stunts and things that were done...
...digitally and all that. but I thought
that was a great little moment.
Well. we discussed it too...
...because we were talking about
maybe doing a flip or this or that...
...and I said. "You know.
let's just do something...
...that comes out of his energy."
The discussion wasn't just me.
but the discussion was:
"Let's do something that comes
out of his newfound energy...
- ...that wasn't too elaborate."
- Right.
And also if they caught him doing it.
it would be strange. but...
...not like "Oh. you did
a double flip off of the staircase."
- Like. "What's up?"
- Yeah. yeah.
Hey. M.J.
This is a part we really wanted to...
Not this scene...
...but this section of the movie...
...just build it slowly. the discovery...
...confusion...
...fear and then acceptance...
- ...of his newfound powers.
- Oh. of the powers. yeah.
Probably my favorite part
of the film.
Yeah. this is a great sequence.
And actually. you know.
when I first saw it. I was...
...unclear about when you slap
the side of the bus right there...
...and it comes off in your hand.
I thought. "Oh. why did that...?"
It wasn't until a minute later.
I went:
- "Oh. because of the spiderweb."
- Yeah.
The little hairs that come out
of the...
But he doesn't know
what's going on there.
He being me playing him in there.
There's a really great pace
to the movie too.
Putting the different elements
together...
...putting the different plots
together. You know. the way...
...Sam and the editors out...
...between your plot
and Willem's plot here...
...and ultimately. the newspaper office
and all the other fun places.
There's a great piece they put in there
with that little scary moment.
- The whole theater jumped.
- Yeah.
But I agree with you.
But this is all really just setup
to getting...
...to your character.
J. Jonah Jameson.
To the real central character
in the film.
This is just...
...you know. all back-story.
so they can see what is really...
That's one of the things
that was so remarkable to me...
...about how well done
this film is. is that...
...there was so much exposition.
You know. really meeting
all these characters for the first time...
...and really taking time
to get to know them.
- Oh. this was very cool too.
- Yeah. I love this stunt. It was fun.
I heard that took you three takes
to get all those things right.
You know what?
They were gonna do that digitally
and...
Someone came up with the idea...
...of standing above the camera
and dropping all that stuff...
...and hoping it landed right.
And I think we saved them
a bunch of money.
- Are you kidding me?
- Swear to God.
- I had no idea.
- We gave it a shot. you know.
I held the tray
and he dropped stuff...
...and I had to move the tray around
and it just landed so we could...
I had assumed that
that was done digitally.
No.
It was not.
Because I'm a Method actor.
I actually have webbing in my wrist.
- You had that surgically implanted?
- Yes.
- You're intense. man.
- Yeah. very.
No. they had his...
Well. that's real but some of the...
This was a very funny sequence.
And then the...
- Yeah. the tray trailing behind you.
- Yeah.
Parker?
- A little prop acting there.
- Yeah.
It worked.
This was a sequence that...
...I had no idea
what it was gonna end up like...
...but the idea of it...
- ...sounded cool.
- Yeah.
The first time we really see
the Spidey-sense.
- It's a fight!
- Think you're pretty funny. freak?
There was so many
of those specialty shots and...
- Come on. Flash. stop.
- I don't wanna fight you. Flash.
- I wouldn't wanna fight me neither.
- Kick his ass.
Help him. Harry.
How'd he do that?
So did you work on that stuff.
that triple backward flip there?
I actually did and I...
I can't say that I did it as well
as the stuntman...
...or anything like that...
...but I was working
with my gymnastics coach...
...and getting in the harness
and doing double backflips.
I never did a triple.
but I did some double backflips.
And I could pull them.
Sometimes the landings
weren't really smooth.
- You didn't stick the landing?
- Yeah.
One thing that worked well
about the movie...
...but about this sequence is...
...real Spider-Man fans who had...
...all the knowledge about
the intricate details of this...
...really appreciated
the attention to detail.
And people who didn't know
Spider-Man...
...who were just going
to see a movie...
...didn't feel they were
out of the loop.
- Yup.
- Because it all developed so well.
- Yeah. This is fun.
- This is great.
Yeah. I went to this...
...convention. a sci-fi convention...
...and people were so excited
when we showed them...
...the scene in the cafeteria.
And they couldn't be more jazzed.
And. you know. like you said.
we were making the film for...
...people who really knew
the comic book...
...as well as people
who had no idea.
Right.
This was fun. I was actually...
Well. there I was on the roof...
...and they had me on a wire
jumping down.
But the other stuff.
jumping from buildings...
...I was in a parking lot...
...with this huge green screen
behind me...
...and a rig above me
that had wires hooked up.
And I was running
and they would yank me up about...
Go. web!
This was Sam's idea.
Just completely his idea.
And I was like. "Sam. are you sure?
You know. if it's not good.
please don't leave it in the movie.
Because I'm really putting myself
out there."
Everybody that works with Sam
has a few of those moments.
- Right.
- "You really want me to...?
Well. okay."
I just went for it and...
Yeah. it's great. This is one
of the big laughs in the movie.
Yeah. it was fun.
It was good. And that's why
I like working with people...
...who I feel like I trust.
You know. I like their films.
I appreciate them as a filmmaker.
So then it gives me more freedom
to try things.
It's so important not to have that voice
in the back of your head warning you:
- Right.
- "You can't really trust this guy.
- You're gonna look like an idiot."
- Yeah.
So I've been very fortunate
during my whole career.
And with Sam it's great.
And I'm very excited
that he's doing the next one.
Yeah.
- I'll say that hurt.
- Yeah?
That hurt.
Some things actually hurt
on this movie.
And I will say that the stuntmen
who were doubling me...
...some of the real Spider-men...
...probably had a few... Or did have a
few more bumps and bruises than I did.
- Yeah.
- But I got my share too.
And they did a great job...
...and not only
did the more risky things...
...but also helped me choreograph
some of the moves when I was doing it.
Yeah. That's another
part of what's collaborative about it.
It's not like.
"Tobey's gonna go sit in his trailer...
...while the stuntman comes in."
- Right.
- You guys worked together...
...on making that transition smooth.
- Why don't you do them?
- Get in here and do the dishes.
Was this in Queens? This location?
I think so.
It was somewhere in New York.
They put you in a vehicle...
...and took you there and...
- Yeah.
- It was across a bridge.
Yeah.
I know there was a Laundromat
down the street.
Did you get a little laundry done
between shots?
No. but I sat in there.
watched a basketball game.
- Yeah?
- I did. yeah.
I. of course. live in New York.
and all of my scenes...
...which were to take place
in New York were shot in L.A.
In Los Angeles. Of course.
Yeah. Do you like Los Angeles?
I do not like Los Angeles.
You do not like Los Angeles.
I love New York.
My wife and I discuss moving out
to the West Coast once in a while...
- ...because her family is out here.
- Yeah.
And I've steadfastly resisted
thus far...
...but we'll see. You know.
- You have to spend time in both.
- Yeah. you do.
Not to get too specific.
but you live in Manhattan?
Lived in Manhattan for a long time...
...and then when our family grew.
we moved out to the burbs.
I see. Very good.
I love visiting New York.
I wanna...
...act...
...on-stage.
This is really the scene where...
I think Kirsten's character
is really a good character...
...and she has a really good arc.
And that she's a little bit of a typical...
I don't wanna say "typical."
She's got the thing I can relate to...
...which is being in school
and really wanting to be popular.
- Wanting to belong to the cool group.
- Right.
And she gets involved with people
maybe for the wrong reasons.
And she hasn't thus far.
in her home life or in school...
...felt like anybody
has appreciated her...
...or understood her...
...or she's felt like she could
open up or trust anyone.
And Peter...
...you know. is a pretty open kid.
And really
has been infatuated with her...
...since he was 6 years old...
...so to have the opportunity
to be one-on-one like this...
. and look at her and say.
"I'm here to listen and understand...
...and care.
And whatever your troubles are...
...you can share them with me
and trust me."
And he's very supportive
and encouraging.
It's so great also in a quote-unquote
action movie. a superhero movie...
...to actually have
extended scenes like this...
...that are really about the interaction
between these two kids...
...and not just there to set up
the next car chase or whatever.
In so many movies today...
...it's like your longest scene...
...is 30 seconds or something.
you know.
You're doing
a one-and-a-half page scene...
...and it's your big scene. you know.
I actually have to memorize
a couple of lines for...
Yeah. this and the scene later
in the hospital.
A lot of nice little scenes
with you and Kirsten.
And the rain of course.
Yeah.
And this was derived...
...from the actual comic books.
- Him doing the wrestling match.
- Right.
Of course. this is you
doing all the artwork?
The drawing. Oh. yes. of course.
No. And to be honest with you.
I'm not even sure who...
- That same hand guy.
- Right.
- The same guy that got bit.
- Same guy.
You know...
This is a real credit to Sam
and the editors I think.
Because this is obviously
something they put together that...
- ...goes into his mind and...
- Right.
...you know. becomes whimsical...
...but it's supported with what's
going on with the character.
That's the kind of thing.
when you're shooting it...
...it's one of those tedious days
where. "Now we're gonna do a shot...
- ...of you looking at your notebook."
- Right. Exactly.
And it all gets put together
and it's all worth it.
And Rosemary Harris.
who is so wonderful.
Oh. I love her.
She's great.
I've actually done a couple movies
that she was in...
...with Sam directing.
and never worked with her. you know.
- Never had a scene with her.
- Yeah. she was in The Gift.
Something else or it was just The Gift?
That's the only other time
that I've been in a film with her.
And here's an example of...
...another character
who's really progressed...
...in terms of the superhero
and supervillain...
...at a similar rate.
- Yeah. right.
- Which is what you were talking about.
Something's bothering him. Maybe
he's too embarrassed to tell me.
Maybe I'm too embarrassed
to ask him.
I just don't know anymore.
Cliff was very much into the part...
...and it's a very important part
as Uncle Ben for Peter Parker.
And...
He just worked really hard
and would come up with...
He would write stuff
to either support scenes...
...or as alternative dialogue...
...and it was great.
He's a really poetic guy.
And he's a father himself.
so he was...
Because we haven't talked
for so long...
He seems like he would be
a cool dad.
You shirk your chores.
You have all those...
Yeah. this is such a pivotal scene
in the movie.
If you don't love this guy
and appreciate what he's saying...
...and buy into this whole thing.
then...
I mean. this becomes
Peter's motivation. really...
...for who Spider-Man is.
Yeah. and like you say. it's also...
I mean if you're a Spider-Man fan...
Oh. sorry. That was
one of the great jokes too.
"I know. I know. I know the changes
you're going through."
Yeah. yeah. kind of.
He says. "I went through exactly..."
No. not exactly.
- A little different.
- Right.
But if you're a Spider-Man fan.
then you see all this stuff coming.
You know what the guy's
gotta say in this scene.
But I think that's what's so great.
is it really felt like...
...organic and natural and...
Are you afraid I'll become a criminal?
And I'm gonna go ahead and say...
...that was also
Sam's great choice in casting...
...in particular the guy who plays
Peter Parker-slash-Spider-Man.
Indeed.
- Just kidding.
- That's one of the things...
...that Sam does so well. you know.
Get the right people
for the right parts.
Little red sweatshirt coming out
of the back of the jeans.
Little subtle touch
that probably most people...
...didn't see there.
Yeah. I'd be among
those most people that missed that.
Including you. yeah.
This was the first...
...big sequence we shot. We shot
some stuff in my bedroom first.
And then came...
The shirt-off scene
was the first day of work.
- Oh. really?
- Yeah.
But then this was like...
...the next couple weeks
or something.
Or next 10 days.
And we had a huge crowd...
...and it was fun working with...
..."Macho Man" Randy Savage.
Because he knows
how to work crowds.
And these are extras
who signed up and were excited...
...but after four or five days
of sitting around...
...with their brown paper-bag lunches.
it's like...
- The novelty kind of wears off.
- Yeah. the novelty wears off.
And he would perform for them...
...and he would get me in
on the action.
He would whisper things to me.
"Okay. now do this and do that."
- And I would. you know...
- You would do it. of course...
- ...because you're not stupid.
- Right.
And the guy's arm
is bigger than my chest.
No. no. Sign me up.
- This is a funny character here too.
- Yeah.
...Understand the NYWL is not
responsible for any injury you may and...
"Probably Will." Yeah.
And you're participating
under your own free will?
Yes.
Down the hall to the ramp.
May God be with you. Next.
Told you! Told you!
Winner!
Next victim!
Yeah. I think this is the first part
of the movie where...
...I'm covering
my 4-year-old's eyes...
- ...when we were watching it.
- Oh. yeah.
I'm surprised sometimes
that people are like:
"Oh. yeah. my 3-year-old
loved the movie."
- I'm like. "Really? Okay."
- Yeah.
One of the nice things
about the flavor of the movie...
Certainly that last sequence with
you and Willem gets pretty intense...
...but it's not too scary...
...for a 9-. or 10-. or 11-
or 12-year-old.
No. my little guy has actually
only seen a few selected scenes.
- Portions of it.
- But I gotta tell you. in all honesty...
- ...he's a huge Spider-Man fan.
- Yeah?
He's jumping off the bunk bed
just like Spider-Man!
- He was Spider-Man for Halloween.
- Oh. yes.
Completely uncoerced. I promise.
This is Sam Raimi here
I'm talking to.
- That's his hand. That's Sam.
- Okay. all right.
That's his Alfred Hitchcock
appearance.
- Exactly.
- Excellent.
I did not know that either.
We were all encouraging him.
"You have to do it."
He was throwing stuff at me.
He loves to get involved like that.
He was one of the people
throwing popcorn.
And later he throws rocks at me
and all kinds of stuff.
Fake rocks. but...
And he would tell people. "Really.
no. throw it right in his face."
And I love that Bruce Campbell...
...who is...
Who Sam has worked with
numerous times...
...is the guy
who introduces Spider-Man...
...and gives Spider-Man his name.
A little good piece of history
for them. you know?
Bruce told me.
he was one of the first to warn me:
"Listen. Sam likes to get involved.
He likes to throw things at you."
He was. like...
He kept prodding him with a stick
in one of the Evil Dead movies.
- There's Bruce right there.
- Yeah.
This is some kind of mistake.
I didn't sign up for a cage match!
He doesn't really know what the extent
of his powers are right now. you know?
He just wants the girl. He wants
to make the three grand to buy the car.
Basically everybody's motivation
at that age. pretty much.
- At that age?
- Yeah. okay. sorry.
- Does it change?
- I forget. you're still a young pup.
I'm 27. Does it change?
You tell me because I know...
- ...you're a couple years older.
- No. it doesn't change.
- When the kids come along...
- Right.
...it's slightly different. But I'm 47
and I still try and impress...
- ...my wife once in a while.
- There you go.
How long did
this whole sequence take?
I don't recall exactly.
I feel like it was like a week or so.
And this was a chair
made of a different material...
...but was like an aluminum.
So it was still a metal.
- They would...
- And he was still...
- ...wailing on you.
- He would bang you...
...but it didn't really...
He would just kind of pop it.
- Like he hits and then pulls back.
- Yeah.
But I always like
a little contact because...
...it gives me something to react to.
Oh. yeah. there's nothing worse
than a stunt fight where there's...
You're really having to fake it.
There's one thing worse.
getting hurt badly.
-Right.
And those bars had some kind of
metal inside of them...
...and were just padded.
But I think. you know...
I think he was feeling
a little bruised up after that stuff.
See. that's such a great shot there.
And Sam stays on your eyes maybe
twice as long as a lot of guys would.
- Yeah.
- But it's all worth it.
Now get out of here.
A hundred bucks'?
The ad said 3000.
Well. check it again. webhead.
It said three grand for three minutes.
You pinned him in two.
For that. I give you 100.
You're lucky to get that.
I need that money.
I missed the part
where that's my problem.
- Hey. what the hell...?
- Put the money in the bag.
Hurry UP!
Hey! He stole the gate!
Stop that guy!
Stop him! He's got my money!
Thanks.
What's the hell's the matter with you?
You let him go!
Cut him off in the lobby
and call the cops!
You could've taken that guy apart.
Now he'll get away with my money.
I missed the part
where that's my problem.
A little vindictive there.
Pleased with himself.
Now. that's where people who
don't know the plot of Spider-Man...
...are thinking:
"Yeah. okay. that was kind of glib
and kind of clever.
But I'm not sure if I'm liking
what this guy's doing right there."
Yeah. Well. that's
what I like about it too.
It's. again. different layers
to a character.
He's not just...
You know. he's a normal person
who makes mistakes.
Right. Yeah. yeah.
He makes bad choices and is not...
This is just...
- What happened?
- Carjacker. He's been shot.
We just called the paramedics.
They're on their way.
Uncle Ben?
Uncle Ben.
Peter.
I'm here. Uncle Ben.
They got the shooter.
He's headed south on Fifth Avenue.
We got three cars in pursuit.
All right. folks. Come on. move back.
- That's a great transition.
- Yeah.
- No.
- Yeah. how was that...
...wall-climbing effect done?
That would be John Dykstra
and his team of magicians...
...animating...
Animating that sequence.
Which I'm not sure
why it was animated exactly.
I feel like it could have...
But some of this stuff is
pretty amazing that they did. It's...
This was green screen.
they shot me.
And then they probably shot some
kind of plate shot for this.
I don't even remember
how we did all this.
You're going between
live-action and animation.
- Yeah. Exactly.
- And it's really... You know...
...I've never been a huge fan
of the computer animation...
...but it really... It's getting...
- It's getting pretty good now.
- Yeah.
Really. it's pretty seamless
in this movie.
It's certainly the best
that I've seen in any of...
...the movies I've seen
with computer animation.
It's pretty great. You're
dealing with the progression...
- ...of how good Peter is here.
- Right.
Because. you know.
he's a little awkward and his...
The way his body moves around.
And he slowly gets the hang of it.
And part of this.
I was actually on a car.
And Michael Papa john was actually
shooting live rounds at you or...?
They weren't live rounds. no.
They were...
I'm not sure exactly.
That would be animated.
You didn't do that jump?
No.
But then I was there
on the car moving.
That stuff was a lot of fun for me.
Very different stuff for me.
different than anything I'd ever done.
And it was fun to do that.
I think that's one of the things that
almost every actor I've worked with...
You know. there's... Again we
hearken back to that 9-year-old boy...
...part of you. Just to be running
around. jumping on stuff.
And doing action sequences
and fights.
You know. that's part of the fantasy
about being in the movies...
- ...that you had when you were a kid.
- Exactly.
To be. like. stimulated creatively
as an adult...
...and get to play as a child
in the playground. like:
"Oh. I get to be
in a superhero movie. you know?
Oh. that's cool."
You know. and do.
like. action sequences.
Don't hurt me. Give me a chance.
Give me a chance!
What about my uncle?
Did you give him a chance? Did you?
And here he realizes that
he is responsible or feels responsible...
- ...for his uncle's death.
- Right.
His actions have come back
to haunt him.
See you.
Freeze! We've got the place
completely surrounded.
They actually built the falcon thing
I'm sitting on in a studio...
...and the rest was a plate shot.
Like green screen.
Oh. no. My God.
This is a scene where
you don't get in on Rosemary...
...but I came in and she just like...
You know? She blew me away. I came
in. I didn't even have to do anything.
Just look at her and just. you know.
I was falling to pieces watching her.
And that's one of those scenes.
it's so effective and... In a way...
...when I'm doing a scene like that.
I'm like. "Yeah. but let's see our faces.
Let's see the emotion that we're..."
But. you know. we've seen that.
We saw that in Uncle Ben's
death scene with you...
...and it's so interesting
to have that...
- ...further-away perspective...
- Yeah.
...on that gut-wrenching
emotional moment.
It is interesting that she's...
Despite the fact...
...the camera's on her back
the whole time...
- ...and it's. you know. 30 feet away...
- Yeah.
...she knows... Well. obviously.
she's a great actress.
She's working just as hard
as if it were a close-up.
- Absolutely.
- That's what makes that scene work.
If you two just hit your marks.
went where you were told...
...because it's a long shot.
then it wouldn't be effective.
- That was another great little transition.
- Yeah.
"Chess." That's what we said there.
"Chess." Oh. man.
It's not quite the same
without Uncle Ben.
I think it's about a month later...
...after his death.
And this triangle is interesting...
...because you have
James and his father...
...and. you know...
James. who's Harry Osborn. isn't
quite what Norman wants in a son.
- Right.
- And my character. Peter. is more...
You know. a science whiz
who really appreciates his work...
...and is driven and wants to do
things for himself.
It creates some jealousy for Harry.
But I really crave that father figure
and that mentor.
To get close to somebody like that
who has the kind of accomplishments...
...he has in science
is amazing for Peter's character.
Right.
And this is after.
It's an empty house
without Uncle Ben.
I missed him a lot today.
I know.
Acting's funny.
because this is one of those scenes...
...that's kind of a tough scene.
for me anyways.
And we did it a few times...
...and. you know. just one time
I got hooked into it and it felt right.
- And the other times didn't. You know?
- Yeah.
They say. you know. it's like
lightening in a bottle or something.
You're just there to... Turn the camera
on. you hope to catch the moments.
Right.
And a lot of the other time... A lot of
the other takes here. I felt like I was...
You know. I wasn't connected to it.
or I was pushing or it felt okay.
This one... And I don't know how it...
I'm not talking about
how it comes off to people...
...but for me. it felt honest.
Well. and that's a...
Right there is one of the differences
between working on stage...
...and working in the movies.
you know. because you do get...
You get the opportunity to...
- Do it more than once.
- ...have a few sort of:
"Well. that one was okay.
Let's try it again." And...
It's also always good
to have the other actor in the scene...
...you know. really working with you
and connecting with you...
- ...and helping to bring that out.
- I need that.
I mean. I... I'm not... I'm not good...
I mean. I won't say "not good"...
...but for me. I feed so much
off of the other actor. you know?
Yeah.
And just the sort of.
the crying thing itself.
I mean. there are a lot of tricks
that you can use...
...to have water
coming out of your eyes...
- ...but if it's not connected...
- Right.
...and coming from
somewhere inside...
...at least I think... You know. I think
you can always tell the difference.
Yeah. Well. actually.
I don't wanna get into that...
...but there's
Sean Peon's performance...
...in Dead Man Walking.
There's a whole sequence
where he's not really shedding tears...
...but he's. like. shaking.
almost like convulsing with emotion.
There's no tears
coming out of his eyes...
...but he's... I mean.
I'm so there with his character.
He's working so hard to not
have the tears come out of his eyes.
- Unbelievable.
- Yeah. yeah.
- Yeah. he can act a little bit.
- Yeah. he's all right.
So all this stuff when. you know.
Spider-Man's doing his thing...
Now. that's Lucy. That was just
Lucy Lawless who plays Xena...
...which Sam is involved
in the TV show.
So she made a little cameo
that probably most people...
Did not know that either.
Quite the makeup job.
Yeah. exactly.
Those were the Twin Towers reflected
in his eye there for a second.
- Now the movie gets going here.
- Thank God!
Like a breath of fresh air.
Really uptight fresh air.
Great head of hair
on the guy though.
This is what's fun too
about being an actor. It's like...
...of course. I know it's you. but
you're disappearing into a character.
It's a really definitive character...
...both in his look and in his attitude.
you know?
It's like. people... I would tell people.
"Oh. yeah. That's J.K. Simmons.
He was in this and that."
"Really? That's the same guy?
Get out of here." You know.
Every copy.
That's the fun part of being the
semi-anonymous character actor...
...to be different all the time.
And that. of course. is...
- ...Ted Raimi...
- Right.
...being abused by his boss.
as he is abused by his older brother...
...the director.
Very much so.
Put an ad on the front page:
"Cash for a picture of Spider-Man."
He doesn't wanna be famous?
I'll make him infamous!
There's the Moondance Diner.
A landmark downtown.
Peter Parker is seeing Mary Jane
for the first time since graduation.
- What are you doing around here?
- Begging for a job. How about you?
These are of course.
all extras that you see...
...despite how crowded
New York can be.
At least in the local area there.
Right. So you have...
...hundreds of people
working crowd control et cetera...
...in New York's finest
and everybody else...
...cordoning off the area.
keeping...
...the fans and the curious onlookers...
wand the photographers.
at cetera. away.
Yeah. With people it's kind of fun...
...you know. because they're excited
about what we're doing...
...and so I kind of like that.
It took me a little getting used to
having several photographers...
...in your eyeline as you're shooting
something. just clicking away.
- That's nice.
- It was disconcerting at first...
...but then I got used to it.
And they try to strike deals
with you too. you know:
"Give me a couple good shots
and I'll leave you alone."
- Yeah? Great.
- Yeah.
Yeah. and then once you do that
for one guy. then you...
Then they're calling all their buddies.
Getting on the paparazzi hotline.
But...
There's Peter being. in her eyes.
supportive and understanding...
...unlike other people in her life.
Let's get some lunch some evening.
And him...
...still being affected
and infatuated by her...
...but just finding out
that he's been deceived...
...by his roommate-slash-best friend.
Harry Osborn.
Timing's perfect. Hey.
Five new contracts. It'll be great.
Storming Norman's
making his weekly inspection.
Better than the average
two broke. out-of-work guys'...
- Apartment?
- ...Manhattan apartment. Yeah.
Well. there was actually
big discussions about that...
...and how to do it.
and it was basically decided that...
...Norman probably owned
the building.
- Right.
- And gave the apartment...
...to his son.
And I kept talking to them about...
You know. and they agreed that it
should be somewhat modest in size...
...inside. despite its size.
Because it's obviously...
- ...a pretty nice place for Manhattan.
- Yeah.
I don't think
I could afford that apartment.
- Well. not before Spider-Man.
- Right.
- Maybe after the sequel.
- Yeah. yeah.
Pete. you're probably looking
for a job now. right?
Dad. maybe you can help him out.
- No. I appreciate it. but I'll be fine.
- It's no problem. I'll make a few calls.
No. I couldn't accept it. sir.
I like to earn what I get. I'll find work.
I respect that.
You want to make it
on your own steam.
That's great.
What other skills do you have.
Parker?
I was thinking about photography.
Hello.
Let's go! Move it!
Watch the street!
- And this was on the backlot.
- I was just gonna say...
...we didn't block off the New York
streets for this sequence. but...
...a good re-creation.
And then all the stuff
in the Spider-Man suit...
...I had to go back
and loop everything.
You know. go in the studio
with just a microphone...
...and say lines to pictures and stuff.
Crap. crap. Megacrap.
I'll give you $200 for all of them.
I was disappointed at the premiere.
they laughed so hard...
...at the first "crap."
that they missed "mega crap."
That's it.
Obviously a very supportive
audience there that night.
Give you 300.
That's the standard freelance fee.
- Tear up page one. Run that photo.
- Headline?
"Spider-Man. Hero or Menace?
Exclusive Daily Bugle Photos."
I went and spent couple days hanging
around at the New York Post...
...soaked up the atmosphere. got the
sense of the big-city newspaper office...
...and what it's like.
And that line about...
...how much I'll give you
for the photos was actually...
...one of the little details
that I gleaned during that process.
- In terms of what standard fees...?
- What's really the going rate for...?
And how'd we do?
Is it pretty realistic?
- We changed it.
- Right.
Because I think it had originally
been something different in the script.
And here's Elizabeth Banks.
plays Betty Brant...
...a classic...
...Spider-Man relationship
between him and her.
I'm working with her
again in a movie now.
- Oh. yeah?
- Yeah.
- Now. will she be back in sequels?
- I haven't seen the script...
...but I imagine. I mean. she works at
the Bugle. so she'll at least be there.
Whether there's
any future with them...
...I don't know. There's certainly...
Stuff goes on with them in the comics.
Right. Maybe in the seventh
or eighth sequel. we'll get to that.
Yes.
I'm basically planning on semi-retiring.
I'll do a Spider-Man every two years.
- And that's it.
- Hope that'll pay the mortgage.
Do a little theater here and there.
- Sure.
- Yeah. why not?
And my kids can go to a state school.
You know. I'll be taking it easy.
And they pull the company
out from under him.
...With entrenched management.
The deal is off if you come with it.
The board expects your resignation
in 30 days.
You can't do this to me.
I started this company.
You know how much I sacrificed?!
He's starting to crack up a little.
A little Mr. Hyde coming out there
in Dr. Jekyll.
Norman. the board is unanimous.
We're announcing the sale
after the World Unity Festival.
I'm sorry.
You're out. Norman.
I have a feeling these OSCORP guys
are gonna meet an unhappy ending.
Something dark
is looming in the future.
They gave him
a little too much information.
They're gonna announce it
right after the Unity Fest.
And here we are in Times Square.
Southern California.
Yes.
And Peter has his first
non-Spider-Man assignment.
Macy Gray.
Coincidentally.
a Columbia recording artist.
Really?
- Strange how that happens.
- Yes.
Funny enough. I was promoting
Spider-Man in Europe...
...and she was touring in Europe
and I bumped into her...
...in three different countries
while I was promoting Spider-Man...
...and I hung out with her a little bit.
And my friend played in front of her.
A buddy of mine who's a musician...
...was. you know. just playing
the guitar and singing.
She was like. "Why don't you
come up and open for me?"
- Get out of here.
- He went up. Swear to God. In England.
I forgot the theater.
but it was like 5000 people...
...and he walks out on the stage.
just him and his plug-in acoustic...
...and he played a Beatles song...
...which I won't hum.
M.J.. would you do me a favor?
I forgot my drink inside.
A little Spidey-sense. Something...
What could go wrong
in Times Square?
Right.
- Have you seen my father around?
- Well. I'm not sure if he's coming.
Oh. I think he's coming.
- What is that?
- Must be new this year.
What is that?
That's our glider!
One of the times
when Sam is at his best...
...Sam Raimi. is doing the scenes
with lots of extras...
...when he comes out
to inspire them...
...and try to get the reactions
that he's looking for...
...out of groups of 10. or 20.
or 100 or 4000 people.
This was such a big job for him too.
He was directing. like. three or four
units at a time sometimes. you know.
It was unbelievable.
This shot I like. coming up of the...
- There's Stan. There. Stan the man.
- That was Stan Lee. Right there.
Peter risking his secret identity
to save a couple people.
- A little bit of a Superman shot.
- The Clark Kent moment there. yeah.
- Why I loved it though. it was good.
- A little homage.
I was a big Superman fan as a kid.
Well. you know. I was that age.
Very tasteful deaths.
Hello. my dear.
It's Spider-Man!
That was Laura Ziskin's daughter.
Our producer.
Willem basically was insisting
on doing almost everything himself.
Yeah?
And part of the reason was...
...because he's so specific with
his physicality of the character.
And the stuntmen were great. but...
...you know. Willem did it the way
Willem did it. you know.
He really acts
with every ounce of his body.
And he's very in shape.
He's a seasoned yogi...
...and has a lot of control...
...of his body...
...even though he hit me and
kicked me many times for real.
Well. he probably meant to.
Yeah. I think so. It was fun.
But. you know. I'm like...
...the younger actor
working with the guy I admire...
...and I'm holding up
on my punches. you know.
Now. both you and Willem had the
constraint of working in those outfits...
...which obviously were
hot and uncomfortable...
- ...and limited your visibility. et cetera.
- Yeah.
Well. Willem's was
actually fairly heavy. his suit.
So I know... He had this. like.
special chair between takes...
...so he could relieve
some of the weight of the suit.
Mine was not that heavy...
...but it's a one-piece that I couldn't
get in and out of myself...
...and my lenses would fog up
a little...
- ...so the vision would be restricted.
- Yeah.
If I ever had to use the restroom
or get a sip of water...
...it was. like. a 30-minute process.
And the zippers broke all the time.
They weren't even gonna
put zippers on it...
...and I insisted.
There were gonna be zippers. but they
weren't gonna put the little handles on.
They did. but they broke anyways.
They ended up stitching me in the suit.
Sewing the suit up
at least 60 percent of the time.
Don't mind us.
She just needs to use the elevator.
So not a lot of potty breaks on days
you were in the Spider-Man garb?
No.
But I think it's...
I mean. we went through...
I went through. like. 30 different
fittings and I went through...
You know. where they cast my body.
which was very uncomfortable...
...because the guys who did it
did not tell me that the plaster cast...
...would rip hairs out of my body.
Sounds like you got a plaster cast and
a free body-waxing at the same time.
It was fabulous. And it was
some of the most excruciating pain...
...I've ever been through.
See. and people think
it's all glamour and parties.
Then I had to stand nearly naked in
front of dozens of people all the time.
- They'd take photos. computer scans.
- Staring at the intricate details.
Oh. yeah. Absolutely.
Luckily I had been working out
for many months...
...so. you know.
I was the newly buffed Tobey.
And then they played with
the different graphics on the suit.
Three-dimensional webbing versus
webbing that was just in the design.
And finally we came up with...
And face mask versus not
a face mask versus helmet. versus...
...just the material. And it was
some kind of a spandex y material...
...Lycra or something.
And it was pretty...
You know. it was pretty good
for movement. It was...
They designed it. because Spider-Man
is such an agile character...
...so you could move around.
and do flips and run around.
- Right.
- You know.
It wasn't as bad as what I heard
that the Batman suit was.
- Apparently. that was...
- Not fun to move in?
Not fun. yeah.
This wasn't so bad.
He's hearing voices.
Somebody.
Who said that?
Don't play the innocent with me.
You've known all along.
Where are you?
Follow the cold shiver
running down your spine.
Willem would. like.
basically never be in his trailer.
He just always wanted to be in on
the action wandering around the set.
It was good to see.
He was so involved and invested.
And I really think
that's what makes this movie fly...
...for me. is that...
...people are trying to give real
performances within the comic book...
- ...fantasy world.
- Right.
To say what you won't. To do what...
Yeah. he's a hard-working guy.
pays a lot of attention to detail.
I read an article
that was interesting about...
You know. and I don't wanna...
I'm going to generalize a little...
...but how younger actors...
We?
...don't use their bodies
as much nowadays.
That it's a lot about head acting.
And it was theorizing that...
...because people came out
of the theater much more...
...years ago. whereas a lot of people
are just going straight into film...
Right. where it's all about close-ups
and subtlety. yeah.
In theater you're there.
Your whole body. people
are watching all of you all the time.
So I think that's why Willem's
such a great choice. is that...
...he really physicalizes
his character.
That was pretty maniacal.
- The old Flatiron there.
- Yup.
- Here we are back there.
- Back in Los Angeles.
Yeah. back in Los Angeles-slash-L.A.-
-slash-New York.
We were in Manhattan
three shots ago.
Now we're in L.A.
How about "Green Meanie"?
Spider-Man wasn't attacking the city.
That's slander.
It is not. I resent that.
No reasoning with J. Jonah.
Do you know what? I really love
what was done with your character.
I don't know where it came from.
exactly“.
...but in this scene.
there's some real...
...redemptive quality about J. Jonah
because he's kind of a hard-ass...
- ...and whatnot. but...
- That was very important to me.
Sam and I actually met a lot
during preproduction...
...and talked about the script...
...and trying not to make this guy
two-dimensional either.
Here he is risking his own life to...
He's protecting Peter Parker. which
I think is pretty courageous. you know.
He's like... Oh. he's not such
a bad guy. he's got some courage.
Yeah. he's just got a little burr under
his saddle about old Spider-Man.
In the comic books.
there was something about him.
He had. like. a big admission
where he says...
Someone was questioning him
or he has some confessional...
...where he says
he doesn't like Spider-Man...
...because Spider-Man is so altruistic
and it's unrealistic or something.
- And how can anybody be that good?
- Right.
And it made him
feel less about himself.
Right. exactly.
He's both suspicious and envious.
- Yeah.
You and I are not so different.
I'm not like you.
This was a good choice.
to be able to see...
- See the eyes.
- ...Willem's eyes in this outfit.
Well. and how to carry a film
and keep an audience interested...
...in characters where
you can't see them ever?
Yeah. yeah.
And I thought the eyes were good.
to see Willem's eyes.
And Sam and I talked a lot about
how to keep people...
...with Peter Parker
even when he was in the mask.
And. you know. it was challenging.
but I guess you just...
We tried to do it with physicality
and a little bit of dialogue.
Sometimes he talks to himself
to keep people involved.
But this is the villain
spouting his philosophies.
- The bad guy credo here.
- Yeah.
A little bit of the. like Darth Vader.
"Join me."
What we could create.
Kind of an antagonistic
buddy scene here.
That's. again. one of the admirable
qualities about Peter Parker. is that...
...he doesn't... Not only does
he not go to the dark side...
...in a big way. but he doesn't
take advantage of his abilities...
...even in small ways for
his own gain. really. like he could.
Right. And I think that came out
of the wrestling situation...
...when. you know.
vindictively he let that guy go...
...and then felt responsible
for his uncle's death.
The responsibility.
Here we are on the backlot again.
- It's me again.
- Hey!
How was your audition?
I have a feeling it's gonna rain.
- You do?
- I could feel it in the air.
You know what?
I underst... My senses are tingling.
...Took two buses and a cab
to get in the neighborhood. but...
So how'd it go?
Kirsten. she's so great because
she's so beautiful. but so real.
So beautiful in a
sort of unglamorous...
- ...actual girl next door. you know.
- Definitely.
Well. that's the thing.
She is gorgeous and sexy.
but not self-conscious at all.
Very confident and self-assured...
...and. you know. isn't afraid.
Never mind.
That's none of my business.
It's not?
Why so interested?
I'm not.
You're not?
This is some of the most fun I had.
is doing my scenes with her.
She just gives you so much.
It's amazing because...
I'm trying to think. I think she was 18...
...when we started the picture and
then turned 19 during production.
That's what amazing too.
She's been around for so long.
- Not unlike her co-star. actually.
- Right.
Somebody that has...
You know. when I was your age...
...I think I was doing summer stock
in Montana.
But people like you and Kirsten.
who started at such a young age...
- I think she even younger than you.
- Yeah. I can't remember...
...but 3. or 5. or 6.
somewhere really young.
- And I started when I was. like. 13.
- Yeah. you were an old guy.
- You were almost growed up.
- Yeah. That's right.
This is similar to the screen test
that I did.
Get off me!
Very professional stuntmen.
She was never in danger.
Although this was one
of her favorite scenes...
...because she got to
kick some butt.
This is a fun shot here.
I had to run...
...in here and I jumped up
in this little trapdoor they had.
Then they shut the door
behind me...
...spin around.
and a double dropped down...
...all in one shot.
Then it's me. And then they cut
and come in closer. and it's me.
And Kirsten... This is our
big kiss moment coming up.
The much talked about
upside-down kiss.
When we shot her
close-up coverage...
...it was before...
I was actually standing...
...right side up for part of it.
And she leans off camera...
...when he comes up.
And she planted one on me.
- It really is a tough business. isn't it?
- Yeah. it was tough.
I will say
that was the enjoyable one.
When I was actually upside down.
I couldn't breathe.
- Water was pouring down.
- See the veins popping out of his neck.
I mean. it couldn't have been
more uncomfortable.
I literally couldn't breathe.
I apologized to Kirsten:
"Listen. I'm gonna have to
suck air out of the side...
...of our mouths."
Because right there...
...the mask is rolled up
to my nose and the mask is wet...
...so it's no longer breathable at all. I
could only breathe through my mouth...
...and then I was kissing her.
so there was nowhere to breathe.
It was unbearable. And it was.
like. 4:30. 5 in the morning.
Of course. yeah.
- Good shot. Oh. yeah. definitely.
- Worth it though. great shot.
Absolutely.
Now. this is not the backlot.
No. And this was New York.
as well.
Yeah. Again. this is a scene that we've
seen versions of this a million times.
And maybe it's just because
I'm a dad now but. you know...
And I apologize for not knowing
this actress's name but she's...
...a New York actress that.
you know. works all the time.
She's great. And I've seen her
in a couple other things too.
She's like one of those people.
you know.
You're in the business. you're privy
to watching people's careers grow.
And she was so good.
And then I saw her in
a couple other movies or TV shows...
...I'm not sure what.
and I went. "Wow."
I bet she's gonna do
really. really well.
No!
- It's okay. Your baby's fine.
- Oh. my baby!
God bless you. Spider-Man.
Bless you.
- Spider-Man is wanted.
- Right.
A lot of these guys
that play New York's finest...
...and/or New York's bravest...
...in these movies
actually are New York cops...
...or New York firefighters.
I don't know
either one of these guys.
- I don't know if they are.
- Yeah. I'm not sure.
But. yeah. we have a combination
of actors and the real deal.
Where are you?
Of course all of my dialogue
is looped.
That's a whole different challenge.
being in the recording studio...
...five months later
and having to try and re-create...
...the same level of involvement.
You're pathetically predictable.
Like a moth to the flame.
You end up doing that in just about
every movie you do. even if it's just...
...sitting around a table talking.
there's always...
For one reason or another. there's
always some re-recording to do.
Yeah. you always do it.
but this was very heavy.
Oh. great.
Yeah.
This was a cool shot.
How'd you get your body
to do that in slow motion?
- You're amazing.
- Oh. thanks.
- Yeah. in all of that fire too.
- Yeah.
To be honest with you...
...a lot of times in the movie. I can't
tell when it's me or a stuntman. I swear.
Because a lot of times.
we would both do things.
- Right.
- You know. because...
...we wanted it to be me
and sometimes...
...there were things I couldn't do
as well as the stuntman...
- ...and we would both try it.
- Yeah.
And at first. you know.
I would be all gung ho and say:
"I wanna do it! I wanna do it!"
And they would be...
You know. Sam and Laura...
...would discourage me. you know:
"We don't really need you
to do this one and it's dangerous."
And by the end of the film
I was like:
- "No. just let him do it." You know?
- Yeah. "Bring in the double."
- Well. it was a long shoot for you.
- It was a very long shoot. yeah.
And I'll say. another person
behind the scenes...
...who really cares
about the character...
...and had a lot of great input
was Avi Arad...
...who's the head of... I believe
he's the head of Marvel Entertainment.
I mean. I don't know his actual title.
But. you know. these characters
are his babies.
And he just did a fine job
working with everybody on this movie.
And he's gotta be one of the most
prolific producers in Hollywood now...
...with all of his Marvel movies.
It's unbelievable.
And he's... The thing about Marvel...
...characters...
...is that they are relatable.
they are human. They're not...
...you know. perfect heroes...
...and just evil villains.
This was actually
one of the hardest stunts...
...just being up on that wall.
As hard as that... On the ceiling.
As hard as that...
And bleeding. always a drag
when they cut you...
- ...and you have to bleed.
- Right. of course.
Then you gotta rehydrate and you can't
take a potty break because of the suit.
- Great shot here too.
- Yeah.
- Hey. everyone.
- Oh. Peter!
Sorry I'm late. it's a jungle out there.
I had to beat an old lady with a stick...
Yeah. now. was that in the script.
or was that...?
I can't remember. I think it might have
been something Sam came up with.
It was really loose. You know.
going into this film. I'm thinking...
...you know. super big budget...
...you know. potential franchise...
...movie series for the studio.
It's gonna be really a lot of chefs
in the kitchen.
But they really gave us a tremendous
amount of freedom to play around.
That's what was great
about this film.
You know. I really went in going.
"Okay. be prepared for anything."
Because I hadn't done a film like this.
But it was the most freedom...
...I think I'd had on any film...
...which was pretty great.
I stepped off a curb and got clipped
by one of those bike messengers.
Well. let me see.
Oh. my goodness.
We discussed doing a Spidey-sense
moment here at the table.
But despite our budget.
we couldn't afford it.
That's the amazing thing
about movies.
No matter what the budget is.
it's never enough.
There's a top to it.
Whether you're on a 5-million-dollar...
I've been on $400.000 movies.
And this one that. you know. they
won't even tell you how much it cost.
And it's never enough.
- I've got to go.
- Why?
Something
has come to my attention.
Are you all right?
He has just discovered the identity
of Spider-Man.
I planned this so you'd meet M.J...
Well. I guess that's it. then.
Spider-Man's gonna be outed.
Yeah.
That's it. And here's...
...Harry Osborn
getting a little insensitive too.
Yeah. it's hard to confront
the old dad figure too much here.
- Yeah.
- He sort of loses his backbone.
You're wrong about her. Dad.
A word to the not-so-wise
about your little girlfriend:
Do what you need to with her.
then broom her fast.
Thanks for sticking up for me.
Harry.
- You heard?
- Everyone heard that creep.
That creep is my father.
With luck. I'll be half of what he is.
Shut up about stuff
you don't understand!
Harry Osborn!
I'm sorry. Aunt May.
Spider-Man is all but invincible.
But Parker. we can destroy him.
Getting advice from himself.
"Attack the heart."
Parker must be educated.
What do I do?
I think it's the merging of
the characters within himself. He's...
Yes?
He's starting to accept his... The evil
side is his more dominant side now.
...Warrior attacks
neither body nor mind.
Tell me how!
The heart. Osborn.
First. we attack his heart.
In this scene. Aunt May.
...And forgive us our trespasses...
Yeah. it's a great... The characters.
both Aunt May and Uncle Ben have...
...a great combination
of wisdom and innocence.
Yeah. absolutely.
And Uncle Ben is really kept alive...
...throughout the movie and throughout
the comic books he was too.
Two milligrams IV.
Get the BP.
Aunt May. Is she gonna be okay?
What happened?
You have to leave.
- What happened?
- Those eyes!
Those horrible yellow eyes!
He knows who I am.
Peter gets caught up.
Feeling responsible once again
for a loved one.
That was a great little shot there
of you actually saying the line:
"He knows who I am."
Because it was so important...
...to make that... Most people probably
would have understood that...
...with just what you were doing
with your face...
...but I'm sure Sam felt it was
important to make it very clear.
And it was good. I think.
not to bring back in the voice-over...
...idea too much
throughout the movie.
To just use that
as a kind of a bookend device.
Yeah. There was a lot of discussion
about when Peter should realize...
...that Norman figured it out.
- Thanks for coming.
- Of course.
How are you?
You okay about the other night?
Yeah. I'm fine. I just felt bad
about leaving Aunt May.
- Have you talked to Harry?
- He called me.
I haven't called him back.
Yeah. and here again in the middle of
this quote-unquote action movie...
...you know. we have a really nice
extended scene here...
...about the characters...
...and what's going on in their lives.
There's so many different...
It's funny.
...you know...
...stories going on within this.
And it's actually a pretty complex.
epic sort of film.
But do you think it's true. all the
terrible things they say about him?
That nice little shot of Aunt May
actually being awake now.
- Yeah. eavesdropping.
- Listening in to the whole thing.
I'm sort of his unofficial
photographer.
Which would be kind of skeevy...
...if it wasn't somebody
as sweet as Aunt May.
Here's...
...Peter getting himself
in a little bit of a pickle. Going into...
Speaking in third person
of his alter ego.
This is really one of the great romantic
little speeches here. though.
- It's really nice.
- Yeah. it was nice.
We did a lot of work on the dialogue.
It was very...
...tricky.
...And she's looking back in yours...
There it is. When you have...
...someone great to work with like
Kirsten. it makes it so much easier.
Right. Yeah. yeah. I mean. it's...
You're doing all the talking.
but it's so much a two-person scene.
- Yeah. Yeah.
- She contributes so much to it.
You can see her. like. progressively
opening and getting touched.
And then that...
...feeds me and informs my stuff.
The truth is. you don't know
what you feel...
...except you know what kind of man
you want to be.
It's as if you've...
...reached the unreachable...
...and you weren't ready for it."
You said that?
Well. something like that.
There's the little comic relief.
Yeah. little backpedal. "Yeah. you
know. something like that. Whatever."
It's great working with actors too.
and it's not always the case. where...
Obviously. when this scene is shot.
they point the camera on you...
...and do the whole scene.
then they turn everything around...
...take their four hours to light it.
and they point the camera on her.
But often times.
or at least sometimes...
...you work with other actors who.
when the camera's not on them...
...they kind of show up
and sit there and aren't really...
...contributing much
to what you're doing.
But it's obvious that you guys
were working for each other a lot.
Well. I've heard a lot of stories
about that kind of thing.
And I've been fortunate enough not to
have had to experience it too much.
Yeah. it's not... I mean. only
a few times that I've felt that way...
...about another actor.
Nobody in this movie.
No.
Well. you were right about M.J.
- Except for maybe Ted Raimi.
- Yeah. that guy. I don't know.
- How did he get the job?
- I don't know.
- What was the deal there?
- It was just a good audition. I think.
And how does he feel about her?
He's loved her since the 4th grade.
He pretends like he doesn't. but
there's no one Peter cares for more.
A little bonding moment
for father and son.
Yeah. they keep trying.
I haven't always been there for you.
Havel?
You're busy. You're an important man.
I understand.
That's no excuse.
I'm proud of you.
I've lost sight of that somewhere.
But I'll make it up to you.
I'm going to rectify
certain inequities.
Wake up. little spider.
Wake up.
Go home. dear.
You look awful.
- And you look beautiful.
- Well. thank you.
- I don't like to leave you here.
- But I'm safe here.
- Can I do anything for you?
- You do too much.
College. a job. all this time with me.
You're not Superman. you know.
A smile. Finally.
Haven't seen one of those on
your face since Mary Jane was here.
Hey.
You were supposed to be asleep.
You know. you were about 6 years old
when M.J.'s family moved in next door.
And when she got out of the car.
and you saw her for the first time...
It reminded me when she said
"you're not Superman" of the trailer.
I think the people who cut the trailer
in the Marketing Department...
...did such a good job. because
obviously the awareness was...
...very high.
But they also did a good job
of not giving away the entire movie.
Yes. which is a real pet peeve of mine.
It was a really good trailer.
- It was a good trailer.
- It gave you a real sense of it without...
Not giving away the whole thing. yeah.
Tell me. would it be so dangerous...
...to let Mary Jane know
how much you care?
Everybody else knows.
I'll be right back.
But...
Come on. pick up.
- Hey. M.J...
- Sing your song at the beep.
By the machine.
Hello? You there?
I'm just calling to check up on you.
Will you call me when you get in?
All right. well...
Don't...
Don't go up any dark alleys.
Hello?
Can Spider-Man come out to play?
Where is she?
Well. she's on top
of the Brooklyn Bridge.
Was it the Brooklyn Bridge?
I think so.
Now. a lot of this was done...
...on the sound stage
or in green screen...
- ...but you did some on location too?
- Yes. Yeah.
If that's the tram. I guess it's probably
the 59th Street Bridge. isn't it?
I don't think it's the Brooklyn Bridge.
Is there a Queensboro Bridge?
The Queensboro Bridge
is the 59th Street Bridge.
There you go.
This is a very cruel choice...
...that the Goblin
proposes to Spider-Man.
In a moment.
Now. this whole sequence
is so complicated with...
...you know. sound stage.
green screen...
...shooting it
on actually the location...
...and then the animation.
Yeah. filmmaking has changed
and evolved a little bit.
It's not pointing
the camera at actors anymore.
No.
Yeah. this was great.
Contrast that with the first sequence
where he's chasing the carjacker...
...and trying to get a handle
on his abilities...
...and now he's completely
in command.
Let die the woman you love...
...or suffer the little children.
Kirsten...
You know. Sam asked Kirsten.
he said:
"There's a lot of stunts and wire work.
And are you in shape and prepared...
...to do this and get beat up a little?"
She was like. "Yeah. No problem."
And I'm thinking. "Come on.
I'm playing Spider-Man.
What does this girl gotta do?"
You know?
And I think that she probably...
...had to do as much. if not more.
I love that shot.
- Yeah. Yeah.
- So cool.
She had to do as much.
if not more...
...stunt stuff...
...stunt work than I did.
This was a bit
of an excruciating sequence.
We're on a sound stage.
hanging from wires all day long.
- Holding a 6-inch ram in one arm.
- Yeah. of course.
- Right.
- That'll wear you out.
The secret there
is the core strength.
We're gonna bring the barge
right under you.
- He's coming back!
- Listen. I need you to climb down.
- I can't.
- Yes. you can!
M.J.. you can do it. You have to.
Trust me.
That's another real acting challenge.
You know. we were talking about...
...the whole crying scene.
emotional scenes.
You know. to do this
damsel-in-distress thing...
...you know. that Kirsten does here
and maintain that level of panic...
...you know. for what
I'm sure was a few days...
- ...of shooting this sequence.
- Oh. yeah.
Then also at Times Square on the
balcony. she had to do all that stuff.
That's another great shot here.
- He's not gonna make it.
- He's gonna make it!
We had all the people...
...doubting Spider-Man
with J. Jonah's...
- ...headlines.
- Right.
You know. they're not sure where
Spider-Man's coming from. if he's...
...a good guy or a bad guy.
That really always continues
to be the story...
...of Peter Parker and Spider-Man.
He's never universally acclaimed
like Superman...
...or some other superheroes.
There's always...
...a significant group of people that...
But here's a moment
where he gets some support...
...which is encouragement for him
that he's on the right path.
Because it makes
him question himself earlier.
Spider-Man. watch out!
- But the moment of victory is short.
- Yeah.
Now. this is the sequence
where I got beat up the most.
Yeah. this...
That's a cool effect.
This is where Willem was not
entirely pulling his punches...
...coming up here.
When did you shoot this? Toward the
end that you shot this sequence or...?
We came back to it a couple times.
but I do believe it was towards the end.
And it was really dusty
and smoky and...
As you see. they had to put lots
of blood and sweat all over me...
...and I'm in the suit. And dirt.
Yeah. that's another element
that adds to...
- ...a long day.
- Yeah.
Then I had to get beat up a lot.
Then I'd have to go back and do
looping and make all these little...
...noises. Try to vary
the grunts and efforts.
And that right there is where I got
some nice little bruises on my ribs.
I had to throw myself into bricks.
Many times.
He might be done for.
Yup. No sequels.
Spider-Man's gonna buy it.
But now that you've really
pissed me off...
He makes the mistake...
...talking about torturing
the woman he loves.
M.J. and I...
...we're gonna have a hell of a time.
In classic WWF style.
Just when you thought he was down.
Don't count him out.
An extra reserve.
It's great that you both have your eyes
to work with in this sequence too.
Yeah.
Peter. stop!
Stop! It's me.
Mr. Osborn.
Peter. thank God for you.
You killed those people
on that balcony.
The Goblin killed!
I had nothing to do with it!
Don't let him take me again.
I beg you. Protect me.
Don't trust him.
You tried to kill Aunt May.
You tried to kill Mary Jane.
But not you.
This is great. because as an audience.
you're going back and forth here.
Oh. now you know.
He's definitely. you know...
- Right.
- ...still in the Mr. Hyde persona.
It's fully taken him.
Thank God for you.
Give me your hand.
Believe in me
as I believed in you.
I've been like a father to you.
Be a son to me now.
Uncle Ben lives.
His name was Ben Parker.
Godspeed. Spider-Man.
Thank God for that Spidey-sense.
Peter...
- That's gonna leave a mark.
- Yeah.
Don't tell Harry.
That's a nice moment
before he dies.
"Don't tell Harry." He does care.
- Spidey misunderstood once again.
- Right.
He's trying to do a good deed...
...hiding the Green Goblin alter ego.
Harry sees Spider-Man and thinks
he's responsible for his father's death.
Hey-
I'm so sorry. Harry.
I know what it's like
to lose a father.
Now. was this shot in the fall?
No. It was...
I swear on my father's grave.
Spider-Man will pay.
I'm gonna say it was...
...early spring in New York.
You're the only family I have.
Maybe late winter.
A little extra guilt for Peter Parker.
And a little suggestion
of what may be to come...
...for Harry's character.
No matter what I do...
...no matter how hard I try...
...the ones I love will always
be the ones who pay.
So they're gonna live
happily ever after. right?
Yes. finally. After...
Have a big kiss and
they'll walk off hand in hand.
As any big...
...superhero Hollywood movie
should be...
...there should
be a happy ending. right?
Finally. after all this time.
All these challenges...
...tragedy...
...Peter Parker gets
what he wants most.
I kept thinking:
The true caring and love
of Mary Jane Watson.
Yeah. sorry. Not gonna happen.
For the first time in movie history...
...I get to say no to a girl.
...Who makes me feel...
...like I'm more than I ever
thought I could be.
That I'm just...
...me.
And that's okay.
The truth is...
This is a great arc for her character.
that she's really...
...grown up and settled into herself.
and learned what's important...
...and set her priorities straight...
...though she had to
go through a lot to get there.
Peter is tortured.
All I wanted was to tell her
how much I loved her.
Intoxicated.
You can't what?
Tell you...
...everything.
I mean. there's so much to tell.
One of those tough scenes.
there's so much wind...
...I had to loop the whole thing.
- Oh. really?
- Yeah.
...That I will always be there
for you.
I will always be there
to take care of you.
I promise you that.
I will always be your friend.
Only a friend...
...Peter Parker?
That's all I have to give.
People had really emotional
reactions to this.
They'd get pissed off like.
"Why? What happened?
I don't understand.
Why didn't they get together?"
It's pretty emotionally mature...
...of Peter there. even though
it might be a little extreme.
Well. that's as close
as he comes to... You know...
...it's still very real.
but it's very noble.
- Yeah.
- Very self-sacrificing.
"It is my curse."
Who am I?
I'm Spider-Man.
Oh. you're Spider-Man?
And she touched her lips there.
like maybe she...
- Right. Oh. yeah. yeah. yeah.
- Maybe she knows something.
I think we wanted to leave it
ambiguous. like...
Something was...
- We're not sure if she knew or not.
- Yeah.
This is one of the coolest...
- ...sequences. I think. What a shot.
- Yeah.
All in all. I'm gonna say
it was pretty cool to play Spider-Man.
- It was kind of a fun movie.
- It was fun.
A lot of work. but a lot of fun.
And seeing it again.
which I haven't in a little while...
...getting a little nostalgic
and looking forward...
- ...to revving the engine back up...
- Yeah. yeah.
...next year. Going back to work.
Back into training and...
There's Lucy Lawless.
Punk-rock girl. Lucy Lawless.
Oh. yeah.
The stunt guys did such a great job.
I mean. I was literally putting my life
in these guys' hands...
...because they do all the wire rigging
and I'd be hanging 100 feet in the air.
And if they screwed up. you know.
I could be seriously injured or die.
Yeah. it was nice to have confidence
in those guys too.
Actually. for two days I was strung up
on one of those rigs...
- ...just in the set there. Yeah. yeah.
- In the office with the Goblin. yeah.
Well. there you have it.
Are you off back to New York?
I am indeed.
And maybe J. Jonah Jameson
will get...
...some New York exterior scenes
in the sequel so I can...
That'd be nice. We should call Sam.
...ride my bike to work
instead of flying out to L.A.
I would like to spend
some more time in Manhattan.
Yeah. well let's talk
to Laura and Sam.
- Perfect.
- See what we can figure out.
You know. now that
we're in a successful franchise...
...maybe we can yield some
of our weight around and...
Well. thank you guys for
hearing us talk about our movie.
Watching ourselves
and rambling on about ourselves.
Thank you for indulging us
and I hope you enjoyed it.
And I'm gonna go try to make
another good movie for you.
Right. Stay tuned for number two.
Signing off.